---
layout: post
published: true
title: How changing my bedding helped me at the gym
date: '2011-01-17 23:02:42 +0000'
---

You don't often think about the things you have forever believed to be
right for you.

My shoulders have troubled me for years --- OK, they weren't exactly
helped by a couple of accidents that caused rotator cuff damage, but the
problem has gone one much longer than that. And in October it got to the
point that it was holding everything up at the gym; and for three months
I got very frustrated with that, as anyone who [follows me on twitter](http://twitter.com/alanfleming) will attest.

A couple of weeks ago I decided that, in order to let them calm down, I
needed to sleep flat on my back at night. Now, I don't like doing that.
I snore. But the snoring's mitigated by a special gumshield now, and
anyway, the shoulders are more important. So I dug the specially-shaped
memory foam pillows out the attic, and put them on the bed.

It didn't work. Just like last time. The time they ended up in the attic
in the first place. I kept turning on my side and curling up --- as I
*always* have done. So much so that my posture is very poor: my left
shoulder is usually carried a little forward, caused by always sleeping
on my right hand side.

So I began to think about why I do that. I had never considered it
before. OK, I *like* curling up, but that's not enough of a reason,
especially when asleep. Then I finally realised why I do this.

My duvet is too light.

I'm getting cold.

I'm curling for warmth.

After that blinding flash of the obvious, I dug out my 15 tog duvet (for
comparison, I was previously using a 4.5 tog one, throughout the year)
and tried it out.

My goodness, it's heavy. But I don't find myself automatically curling
up now. And lying flat at night is having a slow but significant effect
on the shoulders --- they're nowhere near perfect yet, but I'm able to
work out properly, without pain. I'm not at full strength, but that will
come back in time. Too lightweight a duvet. Who would have spotted
*that* one?
